Add cache plugin and tiered cache documentation (#7052)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _search-plugins/caching/index.md

---
layout: default
title: Caching
parent: Improving search performance
has_children: true
nav_order: 100
---

# Caching

OpenSearch relies heavily on different on-heap cache types to accelerate data retrieval, providing significant improvement in search latencies. However, cache size is limited by the amount of memory available on a node. If you are processing a larger dataset that can potentially be cached, the cache size limit causes a lot of cache evictions and misses. The increasing number of evictions impacts performance because OpenSearch needs to process the query again, causing high resource consumption.

Prior to version 2.14, OpenSearch supported the following on-heap cache types:

- **Request cache**: Caches the local results on each shard. This allows frequently used (and potentially resource-heavy) search requests to return results almost instantly. 
- **Query cache**: The shard-level query cache caches common data from similar queries. The query cache is more granular than the request cache and can cache data that is reused in different queries.

> - **Field data cache**: The field data cache contains field data and global ordinals, which are both used to support aggregations on certain field types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Field data cache**: Caches field data and global ordinals, which are both used to support aggregations on certain field types.
```

> ## Additional cache stores

Reviewer: Add a space after this line to ensure that the intro button formats correctly. 

```suggestion
## Additional cache stores

```

**Introduced 2.14**
{: .label .label-purple }

This is an experimental feature and is not recommended for use in a production environment. For updates on the progress of the feature or if you want to leave feedback, see the associated [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/10024).    
{: .warning}

> In addition to existing OpenSearch custom on-heap cache stores, cache plugins provide the following cache stores: 

Reviewer: Cache plugins or the cache plugin? What do we mean by plugin?

```suggestion
In addition to existing OpenSearch custom on-heap cache stores, cache plugins provide the following cache stores: 
```

> - **Disk cache**: This cache stores the precomputed result of a query on disk. You can use a disk cache to cache much larger datasets, provided that the disk latencies are acceptable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Disk cache**: Stores the precomputed result of a query on disk. Use a disk cache to cache much larger datasets, provided that the disk latency is acceptable.
```

> - **Tiered cache**: This is a multi-level cache, in which each tier has its own characteristics and performance levels. For example, a tiered cache can contain on-heap and disk tiers. By combining different tiers, you can achieve a balance between cache performance and size. To learn more, see [Tiered cache]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/caching/tiered-cache/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Tiered cache**: A multi-level cache in which each tier has its own characteristics and performance levels. For example, a tiered cache can contain both on-heap and disk tiers. By combining different tiers, you can achieve a balance between cache performance and size. To learn more, see [Tiered cache]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/caching/tiered-cache/).
```

---
layout: default
title: Caching
parent: Improving search performance
has_children: true
nav_order: 100
---

# Caching

> OpenSearch relies on different on-heap cache types to accelerate data retrieval, providing significant improvement in search latency. However, cache size is limited by the amount of memory available on a node. When processing a larger dataset that can potentially be cached, the cache size limit can result in many pieces of data either being removed from the cache or not being cached, causing the query to be incomplete. This impacts performance because OpenSearch needs to process the query again, causing high resource consumption.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenSearch relies on different on-heap cache types to accelerate data retrieval, providing significant improvement in search latency. However, cache size is limited by the amount of memory available on a node. When processing a larger dataset that can potentially be cached, the cache size limit can result in many pieces of data either being removed from the cache or not being cached, causing an incomplete query. This impacts performance because OpenSearch needs to process the query again, causing high resource consumption.
```

> Understanding how your data uses the cache can help improve your clusters performance and prevent you from using too much memory, keeping the cost of querying your data down.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Understanding how your data uses the cache can help improve your cluster's performance and prevent you from using too much memory, reducing the cost of querying your data.
```

> Undertstanding how your data uses the cache can help improve your clusters performance and prevent you from using too much memory, keeping the cost of querying your data down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Understanding how your data uses the cache can help improve your clusters performance and prevent you from using too much memory, keeping the cost of querying your data down.
```

> Undertstanding how your data uses the cache can help improve your clusters performance and prevent you from using too much memory, keeping the cost of querying your data data down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Undertstanding how your data uses the cache can help improve your clusters performance and prevent you from using too much memory, keeping the cost of querying your data down.
```

## Supported on-heap cache types

OpenSearch supports the following on-heap cache types:

> - **Request cache**: Caches the local results on each shard. This allows frequently used and potentially resource-heavy)search requests to return results almost instantaneously. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Request cache**: Caches the local results on each shard. This allows frequently used and potentially resource-heavy search requests to return results almost instantaneously. 
```

> - **Query cache**:  Caches common data from similar queries on the shard-level. The query cache is more granular than the request cache and can cache data to be reused in different queries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Query cache**: Caches common data from similar queries at the shard level. The query cache is more granular than the request cache and can cache data to be reused in different queries.
```

- **Field data cache**: Caches field data and global ordinals, which are both used to support aggregations on certain field types.

## Additional cache stores

**Introduced 2.14**
{: .label .label-purple }

This is an experimental feature and is not recommended for use in a production environment. For updates on the progress of the feature or if you want to leave feedback, see the associated [GitHub issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/10024).    
{: .warning}

> In addition to existing OpenSearch custom on-heap cache stores, cache plugins provide the following cache stores: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to existing custom OpenSearch on-heap cache stores, cache plugins provide the following cache stores: 
```

> - **Disk cache**: Stores the precomputed result of a query on disk. Use a disk cache to cache much larger datasets, provided that the disk latency is acceptable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Disk cache**: Stores the precomputed result of a query on disk. Use a disk cache to cache much larger datasets, provided that the disk's latency is within an acceptable range.
```

> - **Disk cache**: Stores the precomputed result of a query on disk. Use a disk cache to cache much larger datasets, provided that the disk latency is acceptable.

Reviewer 2: Should "Use" be "Uses"?

Author: It should be "Use" here as we are recommending the users to use disk cache under desired conditions.
Maybe we can change it to "We recommend to use a disk cache" or something like that?
